feat: add prettier tip (#27)
astrolicious/astro-tips.dev: src/content/docs/tips/prettier.mdx

---
title: Setting up Prettier

> description: Quickly configure Prettier to your Astro Project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Quickly configure Prettier for your Astro project
```

---
import { Tabs, TabItem, LinkCard } from "@astrojs/starlight/components";

> ## Prettier Plugin for Astro

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Quickly configure Prettier for your Astro project!

## Prettier Plugin for Astro
```

Start by installing `prettier` & `prettier-plugin-astro` using your preferred package manager:

<Tabs>
    <TabItem label="npm">
        ```sh
        npm install --save-dev prettier prettier-plugin-astro
        ```
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem label="pnpm">
        ```sh
        pnpm add -D prettier prettier-plugin-astro
        ```
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem label="yarn">
        ```sh
        yarn add --dev prettier prettier-plugin-astro
        ```
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

> Next, update [Prettier Config](https://prettier.io/docs/en/configuration) in the project's root to include `prettier-plugin-astro` plugin. This example will use `.prettierrc`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, update your [Prettier config](https://prettier.io/docs/en/configuration) in the project's root to include `prettier-plugin-astro` plugin. This example will use `.prettierrc.json`:
```

> ```json title=".prettierrc"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json title=".prettierrc.json"
```

{
  "plugins": ["prettier-plugin-astro"],
  "overrides": [
    {
      "files": "*.astro",
      "options": {
        "parser": "astro",
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

> That's it. Run `prettier --write ./src` command with your preferred package manager to format all of the astro files in the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's it. Run `prettier --write .` command with your preferred package manager to format all of the astro files in the project.
```

Additionally if you are using the [VSCode Prettier Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=esbenp.prettier-vscode), you can set the following VSCode Config in your User/Workspace Settings:

> ```json title="settings.json"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json title=".vscode/settings.json"
```

{
  "prettier.documentSelectors": ["**/*.astro"],
  "[astro]": {
    "editor.defaultFormatter": "esbenp.prettier-vscode"
  }
}
```

and now Prettier will format any selected document.

> ## Prettier Plugin for TailwindCSS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prettier Plugin for Tailwind CSS
```

> With TailwindCSS involved there is another dev dependency for automated class sorting that is [prettier-plugin-tailwindcss](https://github.com/tailwindlabs/prettier-plugin-tailwindcss).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the Tailwind CSS integration, there is another dev dependency for automated class sorting: [prettier-plugin-tailwindcss](https://github.com/tailwindlabs/prettier-plugin-tailwindcss).
```

Start by installing `prettier-plugin-tailwindcss` using your preferred package manager:

<Tabs>
    <TabItem label="npm">
        ```sh
        npm install --save-dev prettier-plugin-tailwindcss
        ```
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem label="pnpm">
        ```sh
        pnpm add -D prettier-plugin-tailwindcss
        ```
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem label="yarn">
        ```sh
        yarn add --dev prettier-plugin-tailwindcss
        ```
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Next, update the [Prettier Config](https://prettier.io/docs/en/configuration) to include following plugins. This example will use `.prettierrc`:

> ```json title=".prettierrc" "prettier-plugin-tailwindcss"
> {
>   "plugins": ["prettier-plugin-astro","prettier-plugin-tailwindcss"],

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```json title=".prettierrc.json" del={2} ins={3}
{
  "plugins": ["prettier-plugin-astro"],
  "plugins": ["prettier-plugin-astro", "prettier-plugin-tailwindcss"],
```

  "overrides": [
    {
      "files": "*.astro",
      "options": {
        "parser": "astro",
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

> Its important that the tailwindcss plugin comes in the end for Prettier to take necessary formatting. Additionally, you might need to reload your [VSCode Window](https://stackoverflow.com/a/42002990) in the case that Prettier is not working as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure to place the Tailwind CSS plugin at the end. Additionally, you might need to reload your [VSCode Window](https://stackoverflow.com/a/42002990) if Prettier is not working as expected.
```

Start by installing `prettier-plugin-tailwindcss` using your preferred package manager:

<Tabs>
    <TabItem label="npm">
        ```sh
        npm install --save-dev prettier-plugin-tailwindcss
        ```
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem label="pnpm">
        ```sh
        pnpm add -D prettier-plugin-tailwindcss
        ```
    </TabItem>
    <TabItem label="yarn">
        ```sh
        yarn add --dev prettier-plugin-tailwindcss
        ```
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Next, update the [Prettier Config](https://prettier.io/docs/en/configuration) to include following plugins. This example will use `.prettierrc`:

```json title=".prettierrc.json" del={2} ins={3}
{
  "plugins": ["prettier-plugin-astro"],
  "plugins": ["prettier-plugin-astro", "prettier-plugin-tailwindcss"],
  "overrides": [
    {
      "files": "*.astro",
      "options": {
        "parser": "astro",
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

Make sure to place the Tailwind CSS plugin at the end. Additionally, you might need to reload your [VSCode Window](https://stackoverflow.com/a/42002990) if Prettier is not working as expected.

> 
> ## Configure Prettier CLI
> 
> You can use Prettier CLI with your preferred package manager by adding following scripts in `package.json` of your project's directory:
> 
> ```json title=".package.json" ins={3,4}
> {
>   "scripts": {
>     "format:check": "prettier --check ./src/",
>     "format::write": "prettier --write ./src/"
>   }
> }
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Adding an NPM script

You can use Prettier CLI with your preferred package manager by adding following scripts in `package.json` of your project's directory:

```json title=".package.json" ins={3,4}
{
  "scripts": {
    "format:check": "prettier --check .",
    "format::write": "prettier --write ."
  }
}
```
```
Also could be great to move this above Tailwind  CSS!
